Hey,
guys,
Welcome best in this video.
We're going to speak about workbook level events.
So workbook level events happen whenever something happens on a workbook level.
Such is opening a workbook or closing a workbook or saving a workbook.
Andi,
that's amongst other things,
actually.
Okay,
so how do we go to work book events?
So you congee just goto the developer Thomond Urban.
Click on visual basic,
or you can hit Alton F 11 on your keyboard.
And then you can just double click on this workbook here.
Okay,
so this workbook actually is where you can write workbook events on.
Then you can select from this menu Khiry select workbook.
And then actually,
the default event that gets started for you is actually the workbook open events.
So on this event,
what happens is that whatever code you put here gets executed when your workbook gets open
.
And actually,
here is a full list of the events that you can use on a workbook level.
Okay,
Okay.
So let's try to do something with that.
So maybe message box.
Welcome to the workbook.
Okay.
So now whenever we open this workbook,
we're gonna have a message box that pops up.
So I'm just gonna close here.
Visual basic on and I'm gonna see the workbook.
I'm gonna close the workbook.
OK?
Now have reopened my workbook.
And as you can see here,
I've got my message box pumping up here.
Welcome to the workbook.
OK,
so this enables you to execute any code that you would like whenever you work.
Book?
That's open.
Okay,
guys.
So maybe I want to do something else whenever I open the workbook.
Maybe I want to log the Dayton time on when it has been opened.
Okay?
And we will do that on sheet to and the workbooks of created two columns your date and time
,
And I wanna just logged the date and time whenever it gets open.
Okay,
so that would have a log here.
So now I'm gonna go to Developer Tab,
click on visual basic,
and then click on this workbook and make sure I'm in the workbook.
Open event direct workbook from here,
and select Open.
And now I'm going to write some code to do that and parts part of that.
I need to actually know what the lost TRO is.
First of all,
I'm gonna dim sheet,
too,
as worksheet.
Okay,
So that I can give it a nickname and weaken work with that nickname and then set she to
equals this workbook dot worksheets she to,
And then we actually need to get what the last row is.
The last row equals she two cells rose dot count comma one n dex elop dot ro.
And then we need to put the date and time in the row.
After the last row does she to dot cells,
I'll are plus one and one equal states.
And she two cells all are plus one and two equals time.
Actually,
there is a system function that school time that is gonna put the current time into a cell
.
So I'm just gonna close your the workbook when I close it.
Here,
save it.
I'm gonna reopen it.
Okay,
so now I have reopened the workbook,
and as you can see here,
the date and time that the workbook has been reopened on has been logged.
If we close it again and then we reopen it,
you can see here that the date and time are going to be logged again as well.
Even if we hide the worksheet,
this is still gonna happen.
So I'm gonna close it here and have re opened it again.
And as you can see here by on high cheat to the date and time has still been log.
And you can actually put pretty much any kind of code that you would like to happen in the
workbook open event.
OK,
so whatever you want to put you can put there I've actually had a case where I needed
actually to put the day off.
Yesterday's dates.
I used the day function and I used the date function.
So I put in the cell.
I said the value of that cell equals day of date minus one.
And then,
you know,
there was another macro that was pulling up the day of yesterday's date and doing stuff
with it.
So that was actually ah,
Riel,
case scenario,
riel life scenario that all used the workbook open event in.
Okay,
so that's it for the workbook.
Open event.
Thank you very much for watching this video.
I'll see on the next one.